# Flight price prediction using TPOT regresser

This repository is an example of using novel machine learning regression models followed by hyperparameter tuning them with GridSearchCV. Its results are compared against genetic algorithm from AutoML library using TPOT regresser.

### Implementation Details
- **Data Preprocessing:** The dataset is preprocessed to handle any missing values, perform feature scaling, and encode categorical variables as needed.
- **Train-Test Split:** The dataset is split into a training set and a test set.
- **Independent Model Training:** The models Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, XG Boost, Ridge, Lasso are used to train the model. They are further fine tuned using hyperparamter GridSearchCV.
- **TPOT Model Training:** The dataset is trained using TPOT regressor which is a genetic algorithm. It is an model from the AutoML library.
- **Model Evaluation:** The trained model is evaluated on the test data to assess its performance in prediction.

### Requirements
  - Python 3.x   

### Libraries:
  - numpy
  - pandas
  - scikit-learn (sklearn)
  - xgboost
  - tpot

### How to Use the Repository
- **Clone the Repository:** Clone this repository to your local machine using the following command:
```
git clone [https://github.com/your_username/repo_name.git](https://github.com/akhilesh1709/Flight_price_prediction.git)
```
- **Install Dependencies:** Ensure you have Python 3.x installed and the required libraries by running-
```
pip install numpy pandas scikit-learn
```
- **Data Preparation:** Load the dataset or a new dataset in a format suitable for training the model.
- **Run the Code:** Execute the code that trains the model and evaluates its performance on the test data.
- **Analyze Results:** Examine the evaluation metrics and predictions generated by the model to gain insights into its performance.

### Contribution
Contributions to this repository are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvement, find any issues, or want to add additional features to the model, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request. Together, let's enhance the TPOT model and make it more effective.
